VPS_Setup_Deployment.md, before:

VPS Setup and Application Deploymemt
====================================

This application is hosted on a DigitalOcean *Ubuntu 16.04* droplet with the
following configuration.

Initial server setup
--------------------

As the **root** user update the base operating system:
```
  % apt -y update
  % apt -y upgrade
  % reboot
```

Enable automatic upgrades, edit **/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/10periodic** with the
following content:
```
  APT::Periodic::Update-Package-Lists "1";
  APT::Periodic::Download-Upgradeable-Packages "1";
  APT::Periodic::AutocleanInterval "7";
  APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade "1";
```

Configure the correct timezone:
```
  % sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata
```

Create a 2GB swap file:
```
  % dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=500M count=4
  % chmod 600 /swapfile
  % mkswap /swapfile
  % swapon /swapfile
  % echo '/swapfile none swap sw 0 0' | tee -a /etc/fstab
```

Decrease kernel swap agression:
```
  % sysctl vm.swappiness=10
  % sysctl vm.vfs_cache_pressure=50
  % echo 'vm.swappiness=10' | tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
  % echo 'vm.vfs_cache_pressure=50' | tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
```

Add the deployment user:
```
  % adduser deploy
  % gpasswd -a deploy sudo
```

Configure and enable the firewall:
```
  % ufw allow ssh
  % ufw allow http
  % ufw allow https
  % ufw enable
```

Install Fail2ban:
```
  % apt install fail2ban
```

Configure Fail2ban protection for SSH, copy the following content to
**/etc/fail2ban/jail.local**:
```
[DEFAULT]

bantime = 86400

[sshd]

maxretry = 1
```

Edit **/etc/fail2ban/filter.d/sshd.conf** and append the following to the end
of the failregex stanza (below the spam_unix rule):
```
^%(__prefix_line)sfatal\: Unable to negotiate with <HOST>.*\[preauth\]$
```

Restart Fail2ban with the updated configurations:
```
  % sudo service fail2ban restart
```

View status of Fail2ban SSH jail:
```
  % sudo fail2ban-client status sshd
```

Install rng-tools to help speed up entropy generation:
```
  % sudo install rng-tools
```

All configuration from here onwards will be undertaken via the **deploy** user
account.

Initial configuration for the deploy account
--------------------------------------------

As the **deploy** user setup SSH access:

```
  % ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100
  % touch ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
  % chmod 600  ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

Copy **~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub** content from developer user Laptop & Desktop to
the deploy user's **~/.ssh/authorized_keys** file.
  
Harden the SSH server.  As the **root** user edit **/etc/ssh/sshd_config**:
  * comment out all HostKey entries
  * change *PermitRootLogin* to **no** 
  * append the following entries to the end of the file:
```
  PasswordAuthentication no
  HostKey /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ed25519_key
  Ciphers chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com
  KexAlgorithms curve25519-sha256@libssh.org
  MACs hmac-sha2-256-etm@openssh.com
```

Create useful bash aliases. Append this content to the end of *~/.bashrc*:
```
alias cp='/bin/cp -i'
alias mv='/bin/mv -i'
alias rm='/bin/rm -i'
alias be='bundle exec'
alias railsc='RAILS_ENV=production rails c'
alias g='git'
alias h='history'
alias v='vim'
```

Configure Ruby REPL. Create *~/.irbrc* with the following content:
```
require 'hirb'
Hirb.enable
```

Shutup Bash bell:
```
  % echo "set bell-style none" | tee -a ~/.inputrc
```

Install Linuxbrew and required development tooling:
```
  % sudo apt -y install build-essential curl git m4 ruby texinfo libbz2-dev \
       libcurl4-openssl-dev libexpat-dev libncurses-dev zlib1g-dev \
       libsqlite3-dev sqlite3 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev liblzma-dev \
       python-software-properties nodejs imagemagick
  % ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Linuxbrew/install/master/install)"
  % echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.linuxbrew/bin:$PATH"' | tee -a ~/.profile
  % brew install the_silver_searcher
```

Ruby Configuration
------------------

Install Ruby:
```
  % brew install ruby-install
  % brew install chruby
  % echo 'gem: --no-rdoc --no-ri' | tee -a ~/.gemrc
  % sudo apt install libjemalloc-dev

  % ruby-install ruby 2.3.3 -- --with-jemalloc
  % \rm -rf src
```

Confirm that the above built version of Ruby correctly linked against
*jemalloc*:
```
  % ruby -r rbconfig -e "puts RbConfig::CONFIG['LIBS']"
```

Add the following to ~/.profile to pickup the above built version of Ruby:
```
  if [ -f ~/.linuxbrew/share/chruby/chruby.sh ]; then
      . ~/.linuxbrew/share/chruby/chruby.sh
      chruby 2.3.3
  fi
```
Note, we need to append the above into ~/.profile (as against ~/.bashrc) for
systemd services, such as *puma* and *sidekiq*, to work.

Install the latest version of Rails:
```
  % gem install rails
```
Temporary fix for *rainbow* frozen String issue
(https://github.com/sickill/rainbow/issues/44):
```
  % gem update --system
```

PostgreSQL Configuration
------------------------

Install PostgreSQL:
```
  % sudo apt -y install postgresql-contrib postgresql-9.5 libpq-dev
```

Configure PostgresSQL to only accept local socket connections:
```
  % sudo vim /etc/postgresql/9.5/main/pg_hba.conf
```

Comment out host rules near the end of the file as follows:
```
# "local" is for Unix domain socket connections only
local   all             all                                     peer
# IPv4 local connections:
#host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            md5
# IPv6 local connections:
#host    all             all             ::1/128                 md5
# Allow replication connections from localhost, by a user with the
# replication privilege.
#local   replication     postgres                                peer
#host    replication     postgres        127.0.0.1/32            md5
#host    replication     postgres        ::1/128                 md5
```

Restart the service:
```
  % sudo service postgresql restart
```

Create the PostgreSQL user and database for the application:

```
  % sudo -u postgres createuser --superuser --pwprompt deploy
  % sudo -u postgres createdb --owner deploy platters_production
```

Redis Configuration
-------------------

Install Redis:

```
  % sudo apt -y install redis-server
```

Initial nginx Configuration
----------------------------

Install nginx:
```
  % sudo apt -y install nginx
```

Hide nginx server version from the internet and add simple DDOS limits:
```
  % sudo vim /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
```
Uncomment the *server_tokens off* line.

Add the following into the *http* block: 
```
# Customization, poor man's DDOS protection.
limit_conn_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=conn_limit_per_ip:5m;
limit_req_zone  $binary_remote_addr zone=req_limit_per_ip:5m rate=5r/s;
```

Let's Encrypt SSL for nginx
---------------------------

Install certbot:
```
  % mkdir -p certs
  % cd certs
  % wget https://dl.eff.org/certbot-auto
  % chmod a+x certbot-auto
```

Create Let's Encrypt certificates:
```
  % sudo ~/certs/certbot-auto certonly --webroot --webroot-path /home/deploy/platters/public --email <<email-address>> -d platters.site -d www.platters.site --text --agree-tos
```
Note, Let's Encrypt certificates last 90 days.

Create a custom Diffie-Hellman group to protect against the Logjam attack:
```
  % cd ~/certs/
  % openssl dhparam -out dhparams.pem 2048
```

Create a cronjob that tries to renew the certificates at 2:30AM on the 7th of
each month, and then restarts nginx:
```
  % sudo crontab -e
```
Add this content, save and then exit:
```
30 2 7 * * /home/deploy/certs/certbot-auto renew >> /var/log/certbot-renew.log
35 2 7 * * /bin/systemctl reload nginx
```

Mina deployment
---------------

Mina will be used to deploy the Platters application to the VPS.

On a development machine install the Mina gem:
```
  % gem install mina
```

Carry out the initial Mina setup:
```
  % mina setup
```

Log onto the deployment server and setup the required shared directory and
symlink:
```
  % mkdir platters_deploy/shared/tmp/sockets
  % ln -s platters_deploy/current platters
```

Also setup *platters_deploy/shared/config/application.yml* with the
application secrets.

Now deploy the application:
```
  % mina deploy
```
Note, this will likely have some failures the first time it is run since the
*systemd* services have not been setup yet (see the next section).

Puma and Sidekiq services
-------------------------

Setup, enable and start the Puma service:
```
  % sudo ln -s /home/deploy/platters/config/puma.service /lib/systemd/system/
  % sudo systemctl enable puma.service
  % sudo service puma start
```

Setup, enable and start the Sidekiq service:
```
  % sudo ln -s /home/deploy/platters/config/sidekiq.service /lib/systemd/system/
  % sudo systemctl enable sidekiq.service
  % sudo service sidekiq start
```

Verify the status of both services:
```
  % sudo systemctl status puma
  % sudo systemctl status sidekiq
```

Final nginx Configuration
----------------------------

Site-enable the application specific nginx configuration: 
```
  % sudo rm /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
  % sudo ln -s /home/deploy/platters/config/nginx.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/platters
```

Commit message:

Added required passwordless sudo commands needed on the deployment server.

VPS_Setup_Deployment.md, after:

VPS Setup and Application Deploymemt
====================================

This application is hosted on a DigitalOcean *Ubuntu 16.04* droplet with the
following configuration.

Initial server setup
--------------------

As the **root** user update the base operating system:
```
  % apt -y update
  % apt -y upgrade
  % reboot
```

Enable automatic upgrades, edit **/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/10periodic** with the
following content:
```
  APT::Periodic::Update-Package-Lists "1";
  APT::Periodic::Download-Upgradeable-Packages "1";
  APT::Periodic::AutocleanInterval "7";
  APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade "1";
```

Configure the correct timezone:
```
  % sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata
```

Create a 2GB swap file:
```
  % dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=500M count=4
  % chmod 600 /swapfile
  % mkswap /swapfile
  % swapon /swapfile
  % echo '/swapfile none swap sw 0 0' | tee -a /etc/fstab
```

Decrease kernel swap agression:
```
  % sysctl vm.swappiness=10
  % sysctl vm.vfs_cache_pressure=50
  % echo 'vm.swappiness=10' | tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
  % echo 'vm.vfs_cache_pressure=50' | tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
```

Add the deployment user:
```
  % adduser deploy
  % gpasswd -a deploy sudo
```

Configure and enable the firewall:
```
  % ufw allow ssh
  % ufw allow http
  % ufw allow https
  % ufw enable
```

Install Fail2ban:
```
  % apt install fail2ban
```

Configure Fail2ban protection for SSH, copy the following content to
**/etc/fail2ban/jail.local**:
```
[DEFAULT]

bantime = 86400

[sshd]

maxretry = 1
```

Edit **/etc/fail2ban/filter.d/sshd.conf** and append the following to the end
of the failregex stanza (below the spam_unix rule):
```
^%(__prefix_line)sfatal\: Unable to negotiate with <HOST>.*\[preauth\]$
```

Restart Fail2ban with the updated configurations:
```
  % sudo service fail2ban restart
```

View status of Fail2ban SSH jail:
```
  % sudo fail2ban-client status sshd
```

Install rng-tools to help speed up entropy generation:
```
  % sudo install rng-tools
```

Setup passwordless sudo commands that will be required by the **deploy** user,
append the following content to */etc/sudoers*:
```
deploy  ALL=NOPASSWD: /bin/systemctl daemon-reload
deploy  ALL=NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/service puma restart
deploy  ALL=NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/service sidekiq restart
```

All configuration from here onwards will be undertaken via the **deploy** user
account.

Initial configuration for the deploy account
--------------------------------------------

As the **deploy** user setup SSH access:

```
  % ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100
  % touch ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
  % chmod 600  ~/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

Copy **~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub** content from developer user Laptop & Desktop to
the deploy user's **~/.ssh/authorized_keys** file.
  
Harden the SSH server.  As the **root** user edit **/etc/ssh/sshd_config**:
  * comment out all HostKey entries
  * change *PermitRootLogin* to **no** 
  * append the following entries to the end of the file:
```
  PasswordAuthentication no
  HostKey /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ed25519_key
  Ciphers chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com
  KexAlgorithms curve25519-sha256@libssh.org
  MACs hmac-sha2-256-etm@openssh.com
```

Create useful bash aliases. Append this content to the end of *~/.bashrc*:
```
alias cp='/bin/cp -i'
alias mv='/bin/mv -i'
alias rm='/bin/rm -i'
alias be='bundle exec'
alias railsc='RAILS_ENV=production rails c'
alias g='git'
alias h='history'
alias v='vim'
```

Configure Ruby REPL. Create *~/.irbrc* with the following content:
```
require 'hirb'
Hirb.enable
```

Shutup Bash bell:
```
  % echo "set bell-style none" | tee -a ~/.inputrc
```

Install Linuxbrew and required development tooling:
```
  % sudo apt -y install build-essential curl git m4 ruby texinfo libbz2-dev \
       libcurl4-openssl-dev libexpat-dev libncurses-dev zlib1g-dev \
       libsqlite3-dev sqlite3 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev liblzma-dev \
       python-software-properties nodejs imagemagick
  % ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Linuxbrew/install/master/install)"
  % echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.linuxbrew/bin:$PATH"' | tee -a ~/.profile
  % brew install the_silver_searcher
```

Ruby Configuration
------------------

Install Ruby:
```
  % brew install ruby-install
  % brew install chruby
  % echo 'gem: --no-rdoc --no-ri' | tee -a ~/.gemrc
  % sudo apt install libjemalloc-dev

  % ruby-install ruby 2.3.3 -- --with-jemalloc
  % \rm -rf src
```

Confirm that the above built version of Ruby correctly linked against
*jemalloc*:
```
  % ruby -r rbconfig -e "puts RbConfig::CONFIG['LIBS']"
```

Add the following to ~/.profile to pickup the above built version of Ruby:
```
  if [ -f ~/.linuxbrew/share/chruby/chruby.sh ]; then
      . ~/.linuxbrew/share/chruby/chruby.sh
      chruby 2.3.3
  fi
```
Note, we need to append the above into ~/.profile (as against ~/.bashrc) for
systemd services, such as *puma* and *sidekiq*, to work.

Install the latest version of Rails:
```
  % gem install rails
```
Temporary fix for *rainbow* frozen String issue
(https://github.com/sickill/rainbow/issues/44):
```
  % gem update --system
```

PostgreSQL Configuration
------------------------

Install PostgreSQL:
```
  % sudo apt -y install postgresql-contrib postgresql-9.5 libpq-dev
```

Configure PostgresSQL to only accept local socket connections:
```
  % sudo vim /etc/postgresql/9.5/main/pg_hba.conf
```

Comment out host rules near the end of the file as follows:
```
# "local" is for Unix domain socket connections only
local   all             all                                     peer
# IPv4 local connections:
#host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            md5
# IPv6 local connections:
#host    all             all             ::1/128                 md5
# Allow replication connections from localhost, by a user with the
# replication privilege.
#local   replication     postgres                                peer
#host    replication     postgres        127.0.0.1/32            md5
#host    replication     postgres        ::1/128                 md5
```

Restart the service:
```
  % sudo service postgresql restart
```

Create the PostgreSQL user and database for the application:

```
  % sudo -u postgres createuser --superuser --pwprompt deploy
  % sudo -u postgres createdb --owner deploy platters_production
```

Redis Configuration
-------------------

Install Redis:

```
  % sudo apt -y install redis-server
```

Initial nginx Configuration
----------------------------

Install nginx:
```
  % sudo apt -y install nginx
```

Hide nginx server version from the internet and add simple DDOS limits:
```
  % sudo vim /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
```
Uncomment the *server_tokens off* line.

Add the following into the *http* block: 
```
# Customization, poor man's DDOS protection.
limit_conn_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=conn_limit_per_ip:5m;
limit_req_zone  $binary_remote_addr zone=req_limit_per_ip:5m rate=5r/s;
```

Let's Encrypt SSL for nginx
---------------------------

Install certbot:
```
  % mkdir -p certs
  % cd certs
  % wget https://dl.eff.org/certbot-auto
  % chmod a+x certbot-auto
```

Create Let's Encrypt certificates:
```
  % sudo ~/certs/certbot-auto certonly --webroot --webroot-path /home/deploy/platters/public --email <<email-address>> -d platters.site -d www.platters.site --text --agree-tos
```
Note, Let's Encrypt certificates last 90 days.

Create a custom Diffie-Hellman group to protect against the Logjam attack:
```
  % cd ~/certs/
  % openssl dhparam -out dhparams.pem 2048
```

Create a cronjob that tries to renew the certificates at 2:30AM on the 7th of
each month, and then restarts nginx:
```
  % sudo crontab -e
```
Add this content, save and then exit:
```
30 2 7 * * /home/deploy/certs/certbot-auto renew >> /var/log/certbot-renew.log
35 2 7 * * /bin/systemctl reload nginx
```

Mina deployment
---------------

Mina will be used to deploy the Platters application to the VPS.

On a development machine install the Mina gem:
```
  % gem install mina
```

Carry out the initial Mina setup:
```
  % mina setup
```

Log onto the deployment server and setup the required shared directory and
symlink:
```
  % mkdir platters_deploy/shared/tmp/sockets
  % ln -s platters_deploy/current platters
```

Also setup *platters_deploy/shared/config/application.yml* with the
application secrets.

Now deploy the application:
```
  % mina deploy
```
Note, this will likely have some failures the first time it is run since the
*systemd* services have not been setup yet (see the next section).

Puma and Sidekiq services
-------------------------

Setup, enable and start the Puma service:
```
  % sudo ln -s /home/deploy/platters/config/puma.service /lib/systemd/system/
  % sudo systemctl enable puma.service
  % sudo service puma start
```

Setup, enable and start the Sidekiq service:
```
  % sudo ln -s /home/deploy/platters/config/sidekiq.service /lib/systemd/system/
  % sudo systemctl enable sidekiq.service
  % sudo service sidekiq start
```

Verify the status of both services:
```
  % sudo systemctl status puma
  % sudo systemctl status sidekiq
```

Final nginx Configuration
----------------------------

Site-enable the application specific nginx configuration: 
```
  % sudo rm /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default
  % sudo ln -s /home/deploy/platters/config/nginx.conf /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/platters
```
